add serverless-driver (#14612)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md

| FLOAT                | number          |
| DOUBLE               | number          |
| BIGINT               | string          |
| UNSIGNED BIGINT      | string          |
| DECIMAL              | string          |
| CHAR                 | string          |
| VARCHAR              | string          |
| BINARY               | string          |
| VARBINARY            | string          |
| TINYTEXT             | string          |
| TEXT                 | string          |
| MEDIUMTEXT           | string          |
| LONGTEXT             | string          |
| TINYBLOB             | string          |
| BLOB                 | string          |
| MEDIUMBLOB           | string          |
| LONGBLOB             | string          |
| DATE                 | string          |
| TIME                 | string          |
| DATETIME             | string          |
| TIMESTAMP            | string          |
| ENUM                 | string          |
| SET                  | string          |
| BIT                  | string          |
| JSON                 | object          |
| NULL                 | null            |
| Others               | string          |

## Pricing

> The serverless driver itself is free but using the driver to access data generates Request Units (RUs) and storage usage. The pricing follows the [TiDB Serverless pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-serverless-pricing-details/) model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The serverless driver itself is free, but accessing data with the driver generates [Request Units (RUs)](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-glossary.md#request-unit) and storage usage. The pricing follows the [TiDB Serverless pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-serverless-pricing-details/) model.
```

---

> title: TiDB serverless driver (Beta)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: TiDB Serverless Driver (Beta)
```

> summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB serverless from serverless and edge environments over HTTP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB Serverless from serverless and edge environments over HTTP.
```

> aliases: ['/tidbcloud/serverless-driver']

Reviewer 2: aliases 一般用于替换已经删除的某篇文档

# TiDB serverless driver (Beta)

> The [TiDB serverless driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to TiDB serverless over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where TCP connection is limited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [TiDB Serverless Driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where TCP connections are limited.
```

> The [TiDB serverless driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to TiDB serverless over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where there is limited TCP support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [TiDB serverless driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to TiDB serverless over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where TCP support is limited.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: 是否需要加一个 Prerequisites 章节，说明需要提前准备的集群，以及需要准备的环境。
可以把 tidbcloud/serverless 的安装也放到这里。

Author: 个人感觉不太需要诶，就像介绍如何连接到 serverless 不会说前提是需要一个 serverless。反而有点累赘的感觉。

> ## Use the TiDB serverless driver
> 
> ### Install

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install the TiDB Serverless Driver
```

Reviewer 2: TiDB Serverless 中的 Serverless 首字母必须大写，因为 TiDB Serverless  目前在 TiDB Cloud 文档里是专有名词。

TiDB Serverless Driver 你是否希望也作为专有名词呢？如果是，就首字母大写，如果觉得 driver 就是普通的 driver，就使用  TiDB Serverless driver

Author: 就 TiDB Serverless driver 吧

You can install the driver with npm:

```bash
npm install @tidbcloud/serverless
```

> ### Query

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use the TiDB Serverless Driver

You can use TiDB Serverless Driver to query data of a TiDB Serverless cluster or perform interactive transactions.

### Query
```

> **Query**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Query
```

> To query from TiDB serverless, you need to create a connection first. Then you can use the connection to execute raw SQL queries. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To query data from a TiDB Serverless cluster, you need to create a connection first. Then you can use the connection to execute raw SQL queries. For example:
```

```ts
import { connect } from '@tidbcloud/serverless'

const conn = connect({url: 'mysql://username:password@host/database'})
const results = await conn.execute('select * from test where id = ?',[1])
```

> **Transaction (Experimental)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Transaction (Experimental)
```

> You can also perform interactive transactions with the TiDB serverless driver. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also perform interactive transactions with the TiDB Serverless Driver. For example:
```

```ts
import { connect } from '@tidbcloud/serverless'

const conn = connect({url: 'mysql://username:password@host/database'})
const tx = await conn.begin()

try {
  await tx.execute('insert into test values (1)')
  await tx.execute('select * from test')
  await tx.commit()
}catch (err) {
  await tx.rollback()
  throw err
}
```

## Edge Examples

> Here are some examples of using the TiDB serverless driver at the edge. You can also try this [live demo](https://github.com/tidbcloud/car-sales-insight).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of using the TiDB Serverless Driver in edge environments. For a complete example, you can also try this [live demo](https://github.com/tidbcloud/car-sales-insight).
```

    const conn = connect({url: env.DATABASE_URL})
    const result = await conn.execute('show tables')
    return new Response(JSON.stringify(result));
  },
};
```

</div>

<div label="Netlify Edge Function">

```ts
import { connect } from 'https://esm.sh/@tidbcloud/serverless'

export default async () => {
  const conn = connect({url: Netlify.env.get('DATABASE_URL')})
  const result = await conn.execute('show tables')
  return new Response(JSON.stringify(result));
}
```

</div>

<div label="Supabase Edge Function">

```ts
import { serve } from "https://deno.land/std@0.168.0/http/server.ts"
import { connect } from 'https://esm.sh/@tidbcloud/serverless'

serve(async (req) => {

  const conn = connect({url: Deno.env.get('DATABASE_URL')})
  const result = await conn.execute('show tables')
  return new Response(
      JSON.stringify(result),
      { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" } },
  )
})
```

</div>

<div label="Deno">

```ts
import { connect } from "npm:@tidbcloud/serverless-js"

const conn = connect({url: Deno.env.get('DATABASE_URL')})
const result = await conn.execute('show tables')
```

</div>

</SimpleTab>

## Features

> ### Supported SQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Supported SQL statements
```

> ### Supported SQL Statements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Supported SQL statements
```

> The following SQL statements are supported:  `Select`, `Show`, `Explain`, `Use`, `Insert`, `Update`, `Delete`, `Begin`, `Commit`, `Rollback`. Most of the DDL are supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following SQL statements are supported:  `SELECT`, `SHOW`, `EXPLAIN`, `USE`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `BEGIN`, `COMMIT`, `ROLLBACK`. Most of the DDL are supported.
```

> The following SQL statements are supported:  `SELECT`, `SHOW`, `EXPLAIN`, `USE`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `BEGIN`, `COMMIT`, `ROLLBACK`. Most of the DDL are supported.

Reviewer 2: 哪些 DDL 不支持呢

Author: 能想到的都支持了，就是担心有些不支持。most of 确实不合适，我们预期是想都支持的，我就改成 `DDL is supported`

> ### Data Type Mapping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Data type mapping
```

> The type mapping between TiDB Serverless and Javascript are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The type mapping between TiDB Serverless and Javascript is as follows:
```

> | TiDB Serverless Type | Javascript Type |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiDB Serverless type | Javascript type |
```

| DOUBLE               | number          |
| BIGINT               | string          |
| UNSIGNED BIGINT      | string          |
| DECIMAL              | string          |
| CHAR                 | string          |
| VARCHAR              | string          |
| BINARY               | string          |
| VARBINARY            | string          |
| TINYTEXT             | string          |
| TEXT                 | string          |
| MEDIUMTEXT           | string          |
| LONGTEXT             | string          |
| TINYBLOB             | string          |
| BLOB                 | string          |
| MEDIUMBLOB           | string          |
| LONGBLOB             | string          |
| DATE                 | string          |
| TIME                 | string          |
| DATETIME             | string          |
| TIMESTAMP            | string          |
| ENUM                 | string          |
| SET                  | string          |
| BIT                  | string          |
| JSON                 | object          |
| NULL                 | null            |
| Others               | string          |

### Limitations

- Up to 10,000 rows can be fetched in a single query.

> - You can execute only one SQL at a time, multiple SQLs in one query are not supported yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can execute only one SQL statement at a time, multiple SQLs in one query are not supported yet.
```

> TiDB serverless driver following the [TiDB serverless pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-serverless-pricing-details) model. The driver itself is free but RU and storage will also be generated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Driver follows the [TiDB Serverless pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-serverless-pricing-details/) model. The driver itself is free but using the driver to access data generates Request Units (RUs) and storage usage.
```

## Limitations

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Currently, using TiDB Serverless Driver has the following limitations:
```

- Up to 10,000 rows can be fetched in a single query.

> - You can execute only one SQL statement at a time, multiple SQLs in one query are not supported yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can execute only a single SQL statement at a time, multiple SQL statements in one query are not supported yet.
```

> - Connect with [private endpoints](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections-serverless.md) is not supported yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Connection with [private endpoints](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections-serverless.md) is not supported yet.
```

## What's next

> - [Learn how to configure TiDB serverless driver](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver-config.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Learn how to configure TiDB Serverless Driver](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver-config.md).
```

---
title: TiDB Serverless Driver (Beta)
summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB Serverless from serverless and edge environments over HTTP.
---

# TiDB Serverless driver (Beta)

> [TiDB Serverless Driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where TCP connections are limited.

Reviewer 3: add environment samples, `like Cloudflare workers, Vercel edge functions...`

> [TiDB Cloud serverless driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where TCP connections are limited, such as Vercel Edge Functions and Cloudflare Workers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TiDB Cloud serverless driver (Beta)](https://github.com/tidbcloud/serverless-js) for JavaScript allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster over HTTPS. It is particularly useful in edge environments where TCP connections are limited, such as [Vercel Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/functions/edge-functions) and [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/).
```

## Install the serverless driver

You can install the driver with npm:

```bash
npm install @tidbcloud/serverless
```

## Use the serverless driver

> You can use the driver to query data of a TiDB Serverless cluster or perform interactive transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the serverless driver to query data of a TiDB Serverless cluster or perform interactive transactions.
```

### Query

To query data from a TiDB Serverless cluster, you need to create a connection first. Then you can use the connection to execute raw SQL queries. For example:

```ts
import { connect } from '@tidbcloud/serverless'

const conn = connect({url: 'mysql://username:password@host/database'})
const results = await conn.execute('select * from test where id = ?',[1])
```

> ### Transaction (Experimental)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Transaction (experimental)
```

You can also perform interactive transactions with the serverless driver. For example:

```ts
import { connect } from '@tidbcloud/serverless'

const conn = connect({url: 'mysql://username:password@host/database'})
const tx = await conn.begin()

try {
  await tx.execute('insert into test values (1)')
  await tx.execute('select * from test')
  await tx.commit()
}catch (err) {
  await tx.rollback()
  throw err
}
```

> ## Edge Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Edge examples
```

| TINYTEXT             | string          |
| TEXT                 | string          |
| MEDIUMTEXT           | string          |
| LONGTEXT             | string          |
| TINYBLOB             | string          |
| BLOB                 | string          |
| MEDIUMBLOB           | string          |
| LONGBLOB             | string          |
| DATE                 | string          |
| TIME                 | string          |
| DATETIME             | string          |
| TIMESTAMP            | string          |
| ENUM                 | string          |
| SET                  | string          |
| BIT                  | string          |
| JSON                 | object          |
| NULL                 | null            |
| Others               | string          |

## Pricing

The serverless driver itself is free but using the driver to access data generates Request Units (RUs) and storage usage. The pricing follows the [TiDB Serverless pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-serverless-pricing-details/) model.

## Limitations

Currently, using serverless driver has the following limitations:

- Up to 10,000 rows can be fetched in a single query.

> - You can execute only a single SQL statement at a time, multiple SQL statements in one query are not supported yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can execute only a single SQL statement at a time. Multiple SQL statements in one query are not supported yet.
```
